hi there Paul Newsom here just had the
call that we should be due to swim the
English Channel in the next couple of
days it's currently the 31st of August
and we've just been given the call but
we may be setting off at four a.m. on
saturday morning that's the third of
September it's really quite exciting
some of you been following our progress
over the last well last 6 to 12 months
basically as we prepare for this English
Channel swim there's been eight of us
have prepared for this / in / in Perth
and now the final three of us myself
Paul Downey and Andrew hands are due to
swim all on the same day that is
Saturday morning and the training is
consisted of up to 70 kilometres of
swimming per week that's around about 45
miles for those of you living in the US
the channel is directly behind me here
we're just look at the beautiful Vaughn
rige holiday holiday camp which is where
many many of the English Channel swim
has come to come to base themselves
right behind me here is the English
Channel we're up on the White Cliffs of
Dover as you can probably see and
they're just in the distance 21 miles or
34 kilometers from where we are right
now is it's France we're hoping to set
off from from the Shakespeare beach and
around about 4 a.m. on saturday morning
and given that the we're actually in a
spring tidal system at the moment which
is not the not the most ideal tidal
system normally most women's would go on
and neap tide where the tidal flow is a
lot less than what we're going to
experience on Saturday and however we
have heard that in our proper title
window which will actually start next
week the weather conditions etc are
going to be not so favorable so we're
going to take the opportunity on
Saturday morning if we can grab it when
the wind should be fairly light and and
hopefully it should be a nice blue sunny
day like care like we've got right now
and around about 23 degrees so all these
factors play into account our skippers
have told us that's given the the
strength of the tide we should be
expecting an additional time of around
about an hour maybe even hour and a half
or two hours on what we could
potentially do had the tides being a
little bit lower so people will always
ask the question if we swim the English
Channel what time did you swim now it's
such a hard answer to be able to give I
know in myself how well I'm swimming at
the moment and feel confident in my
abilities to get across to France and
hopefully if all things play
play accordingly but we really do not
know whether that's going to take as
little as 10 hours or as much as 18
hours in fact a gentleman last night 70
years old swam across to France in just
under 18 hours on similar sort of
conditions to what we should experience
on Saturday so that was an absolutely
fantastic achievement by by that chap
and hopefully if we can repeat his
performance and get our name on the on
the swimmers board over here at von
Ridge all previous channel swimmers have
actually got there they're at their
nationality flag up there and the time
it's taken them to swim across the
channel so we're all very excited as you
can probably tell them getting quite
pumped up for this and really ready to
ready to rock and roll it's been a it's
been an interesting ride getting here
we've done many many miles in training
and we flew in from Australia on on
Friday nights we've been here for about
the last three or four days we got
involved in a year in a swim on Sunday
afternoon sorry Sunday morning a 3.8 k
swim every margate we're at ninety-five
percent of the field got washed out to
sea and had to be had to be saved by the
RNLI lifeguards luckily I was one of
only four or five swimmers who actually
made it around the course and I finished
second on that particular occasion so
I'm feeling good feeling confidence and
they can't wait to get out there so for
those of you interested in tracking is
we will have a website channel dare
that's da re calm and where you'll
actually be able to track us we should
have live gps tracking and also twitter
feed and Adam will actually be updating
you as we go along so if you want to get
on that twitter feed give us some
support the like savory will be myself
but also andrew hands and pull down e
also attempting solo swim so we really
really love it if you could get behind
us and give us some support and saturday
because we're going to need it we're
going to need the weather gods to be m
to be on our side and a good bit of
fortune hopefully all them get across
there in fine form and that look forward
to the to the celebratory party
afterwards so thanks very much for
tuning in to this we'll see you soon